TASK1 : OSI

OSI stands for open systems interconnection.
It is a framework which explains about the process of transfer/flow  of data between two systems. 

There are 7 levels of the OSI model which follows the topdown order.
1)Physical layer:
                lowest layer and the actual Physical connection between devices.Information is in the form of bits.
        functions:bitsync,bitrate control,physical topologies,transmission mode.
        device/protocol: hub, repeater , modem ,cables etc
2)datalink layer:
                responsible for node-node error free delivery of messages(frames) using mac address(get through arp request).
        functions:framing, physical addressing,errorcontrol,flowcontrol,accesscontrol.
        device/protocol: switch,bridge etc.
3)Network layer:
                transmission of data fron one host to another, selects shortest part to transmit,places IPadd in the header.
        functions:routing , logical addressing.
        device/protocol: used by routers and switches.
4)Transport layer:
                It is responsible for end-to-end communication between devices on a network.
        functions:Segmentation and Reassembly,Service Point Addressing.
        Services:connection oriented service: 3phase process: connection,data transfer,disconnection.
                 connectionless service: used for faster transfers
        device/protocol: TCP,UDP,netbios,pptp etc
5)Session layer: 
                responsible for the establishment of connection, maintenance of sessions, and authentication, and also ensures security.
        functions:Session establishment, maintenance, and termination,synchronization,dialog controller.
        device/protocol: netbios,pptp etc
6)Presentation layer:
                (translation layer)The data from the application layer is extracted here and manipulated as per the required format to transmit over the network. 
        functions:translation,encryption/decryption,compression.
        device/protocol:jpeg,mpeg,gif etc
7)Application layer:
                serves as a window for the application services to access the network and for displaying the received information to the user. 
        functions:network virtual terminal,FTAM,mail services,directory services.
        device/protocol:SMTP


HANDSHAKES
        it defines the process of communication between devices and processes.

TWO WAY HANDSHAKES:
                uses syn and ack messages.
                client sends a syn message to server with a seq number ,server acknowledges syn message with ack message with a seq number.
                when process is delayed the process breaks.
THREE WAY HANDSHAKES :
                here client sends syn with seq x, server acknowledges the seq x sending a syn-ack with seq y,then client verifies with an ack.



ROUTERS
        networking devices operating at network layer(layer3 of OSI)


        features: 
                can be used in both lan and wan
                transfers in the form of IP packets
                Routers provide protection against broadcast storms.
                more expensive than hubs ,bridges,switches
                ex-cisco,dlink.hp.,3com,juniper,nortel
        routing table:
                The routing table stores the available routes for all destinations.
               contains
                IP addresses and subnet mask of the nodes in the network
                IP addresses of the routers in the network
                Interface information among the network devices and channels

        1)static routing table:
                Here, the routes are fed manually and are not refreshed automatically. 
                It is suitable for small networks containing 2-3 routers.
        2)dynamic routing table:
                Here, the router communicates with other routers using routing protocols to determine the available routes.
                It is suited for larger networks having large number of routers.

        Types of routers:
                wireless
                broadband
                core
                edge
                brouters
                
